################################################################################
#  MODEL SELECTION                                                             #
################################################################################

I think we should simply use the commercially available LLM that leads the way
in reasoning benchmarks.
 - Claude 3.5 Sonnet
     - leads in GPQA (graduate level reasoning)
     - Math (grade school & multilingual)
     - Reasoning over text (DROP)
     - Mixed Evaluations (BIG-Bench-Hard)
     - Undergraduate level knowledge

The reasoning skill provides the most potential to address the foreseen (and
encountered) issues with Llama — inability to reason through a full academic 
argument well.

################################################################################
#  QUESTIONS                                                                   #
################################################################################

Should we pass in relevant literature to use as sources? Or is that loading up
the prompt too much?


################################################################################
#  PROMPT ENGINEERING                                                          #
################################################################################

Write an 8000 word undergraduate philosophy thesis, structured with an
introduction section, background section, original argument, and conclusion that
answers the following question. Use formal academic tone and cite literature
as appropriate.

Algorithms are being used more frequently to make social decisions. There are
a number of proposed fairness metrics that can be used to measure statistical
fairness conditions on the output of decision making models, but it is not
possible to satisfy all of them on any particular model. As a result, we must
choose which measures to use on any given problem, and it is not always clear
which measure we should prefer. Recent papers (Hertweck et al 2024, Hertweck et
al 2023, Kuppler et al 2021) have shown a link between algorithmic fairness and
theories of distributive justice in an effort to clarify how these measures
should be thought of philosophically. Egalitarianism dominates much of the
philosophical literature cited, but libertarian theories such as Nozick’s
entitlement theory are notably absent. 

Your thesis should begin by clearly explaining key fairness metrics (e.g.,
demographic parity, equalized odds) and the core concepts of egalitarian and
libertarian justice. Then, formulate a definition of algorithmic fairness
grounded in entitlement theory (e.g., Nozick’s principles of acquisition,
transfer, and rectification). Apply this framework to a hypothetical or
real-world example (e.g., loan approval or hiring), and compare the outcomes to
egalitarian models. In each major section, make your assumptions explicit,
justify your philosophical claims with textual support or example cases, and
anticipate possible objections to the entitlement-based framework.
